CRASH COURSE OF
PRINCE OF PERSIA SCREENSHOTS RECOGNIZER
(c) Copyright 2005 Princed Development Team
Programmed by peter_k

Q. What is this tool for?
A. This tool is mainly for pop developers. It can "tell" you what is the
frame order in animation, what is the pixel position and the screen, what
is the layer number and if this bitmap is "mirrored" or not.

Q. How to recognize something?
A. If you want to start recognize something, first you should make few dirs:
 - Screen shots dir -> only one dir. In this dir you can put up to 99999
   bitmap files, all sized 320x200.
 - Bitmaps to recognize -> as many dirs as you want. In each dir you should
   put images from one category, for example "kid", "vizier", "swords", but
   it is not order.

In this dirs you can also put file "bitmaps.cfg" (neither it is in order).

Here is an example content of this file:
1
1
10
1

First number means if this bitmaps have "two directions". A number 1 means
true (bitmaps have two directions), a number 0 means false. The default
value is 1.
Second number is for the maximum number of this object at the screen. The
default value is 99999. NOTE: If in one folder named for example "kid" you
'll have kids frames and kid lives, and you type "1" the program will
recognize only kid, not his lives. So in this situation you can put kid
frames and kid lives in separate dirs, but it is not order.
The third number represents the minimum allowed percentile of
"good pixels" to recognize something. By default it is 30 (so 30%). For 
pop1 swords use 10%, for other items some value over 30%. The bigger number
you use will result in the faster it runs ;)
The fourth and last number means if bitmaps in this dir are transparent.
If "1" than yes (R:0,G:0,B:0 is transparent), if "0" than no.

Ok, so you have screen shots in the "screen" dir and you want to detect kid
fight with jaffar ;) So you need kid.dat, prince.dat and vizier.dat frames.
You can extract them using for example PR. But remember that in bitmaps dir,
background dir is not read!
So run "poprecog.exe" now ;) For the first you should type screen shots dir.
After this press [ENTER] to confirm. Then type each dir, in which there are
bitmaps to recognize, confirm them also by pressing [ENTER]. At the end type
"END"[ENTER]. Now type the maximum number of layers. If you'll type "0" here
than it means that poprecog should recognize as long as it won't be new
recognized items. Confirm with [ENTER] key ;) And last thing, type dir, in
which there will be results. This dir don't have to exist, but if it is now,
please empty it. I advise to use prefix before the folder name, for example
"__fight_with_jaffar", to differentiate this dir from other dirs (with
screen shots and bitmaps). Now you only have to wait ... ;)

Q. What are this files in the results dir?
A. In results dir you'll see many output files:

all_results.txt
  Everything that was in the console window

small_results.txt
  This is the "smaller" file of all_results.txt. It contains only information
  about what screenshot is recognized, and what are the founded items. This
  program can be used by other programs, for example to recognized animation.

rec_[SCREENSHOT_FILE_NAME].bmp
  Here are good results to check if everything was recognized correctly.

trans_[SCREENSHOT_FILE_NAME].bmp
  Every pixel which was recognized is [R:255,G:0,B:255] ;)

Q. How can I made this screen shots?
A. Download RECORD from http://www.princed.com.ar (it only works in dos mode,
win95 or win98) or try any other program ;)

I hope this tool will be useful :)

---
2005.06.30

